# How to Create a Reddit Post That Will Get The Most Engagement From Reddit Users

## Data Collection via Web Scraping
For this project, I used Reddit's PushShift API for webscraping and collecting data. I collected the subreddits name (in this project it is just immigration), title of post, text of the post, length of time the post was on reddit, date of post,score of post, number of comments, number of cross posts, upvote ratio, have created a binary variable named popular that will be used for classification later. A post is considered popular if it has more than the median number of comments (which is 1) else it is not. Popular is denoted as 1, not popular is denoted as 0.

## EDA and Data-Preprocessing 
My split is very close to 50-50, so I don't have to take any steps to balance the split. Now I want to randomly look through a couple post to familiarize myself with the data. But looking at the descriptive statistics, `num_comments` has a really big range, likely due to outliers. I used interquartile range to get rid of my outliers. 
After plotting time passed vs. number of post, we can see that there was a drastic increase in reddit engagement around 2019-2021. What might have caused such an increase? COVID-19 emerged around this time and it " disrupted virtually every aspect of the U.S. immigration system" (Loweree,Reichlin-Melnick, Ewing, 'The Impact of COVID-19 on Noncitizens and Across the U.S. Immigration System'). Here are a few reasons listed in the article about how COVID-19 affected the immigration system:
* Visa processing overseas by the Department of State, as well as the processing of some immigration benefits within the country by U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), have come to a near standstill
* Entry into the United States has been severely restricted
* Tens of thousands of people remain in immigration detention
* The pandemic led to the suspension of many immigration court cases

We can also see that engagement increases gradully around the middle of the year and drastically around october and towards to the end/ beginning of the year. This could be due to "USCIS us[ing] Fiscal Years (FY), which run from October 1 (boundless.com). So, we would expect USICS reviewing/ respoding to/ and revwing cases at a higher rate during this time.

## Modeling
I will converted my time_on_reddit to a float datatype by extacting the number of days it has been sinve the post has been up and storing that as a float. And I will also use count vecorized to encode title and selftext. Addittionally, I used a subset of my model for modeling because I have too much data to model and execute on my local server. Ideally, with more time and resources, I would make use of all my data to model.The baseline model will predict that a post is not popular about 57% of the time and that it is popular 43% of the time. My random forest model  if a post on reddit is popular or not with 81% accuracy. Which is a big increase from the baseline model. The most importanrt features that affects whether a post is popular is time on reddit, the word "immigration" in the title, the words "card", "citizen", green", "just", "know", "thanks" and "visa". These features are pretty make a lot of sense, a posts time on reddit will increase engagement as more people are bound to see it. The words "green" and "card" most likely go hand in hand as people inqire about green cards. People in this subreddit usually post for other people who "know" the answer can share an answer. The words 'immigration", "visa" , and "citizen" are pretty popular general words around immigrants. And finally, showing gratitude by saying "thanks" also increases engagement. Our model also believes "nocontent_text" which is a place holder for popts with no content that I decided to keep to preserve titles and from removed posts. It's interesting to see that posts with no content and just a title can still be popular.I will now create a model without the removed_text and nocontent_text features to see if I can get a better model.I also created a logistic regression model, but it performed very poorly with accuuracy of only 76%. 


